All right, guys.
So we've looked at the at least the fundamentals of pretty much everything you'll need to know.
As far as CSIS goes, however, there's something called SAS that is pretty popular in front end web
development and definitely worth learning.
So in this section, we're going to go over what SAS is.
We're going to look at a few examples, talk about the different features that SAS includes.
And then in the next section we'll be creating our final project, which will be a portfolio website.
We'll be using SAS along with a bunch of other stuff that we've learned in the course.
All right, so what is SAS?
It stands for syntactically awesome style sheets and it's a CSS preprocessor.
And you may also see see it referred to as a CSS pre compiler or a CSS extension or even a stylesheet
language.
Now the reason we use SAS is because it enhances CSS beyond its natural capabilities.
It allows us to use CSS more like an actual programming language, and it can cut down repeated code.
It can allow us to structure things in a more efficient way.
SAS isn't the only preprocessor available.
There's also less.
There's stylists and there's some others.
However, SAS is by far the most popular at this point.
All right.
So how does Sass actually work?
Because this confuses a lot of beginners.
SAS is written in one of two files extensions.
So either DOT, SAS or SAS.
Now SAS is usually preferred.
And I'll talk about the difference between the two in a little bit.
But I think what confuses people about SAS is that the browser doesn't actually read SAS files like
it does CSIS.
You can't simply add a link tag and then include style dot success like you can with a standard CSS
file, at least not yet.
So it has to be compiled down to regular CSS and then that's what you include in your website or application.
All right.
Now, as far as compiling goes, there's many different programs to do this.
What I like to use is something called Node SAS, which is installed with NPM, which is the Node package
manager.
And we can create a simple NPM script that will watch a certain folder where we create our SAS files
and then it'll compile anything we write into regular CSS and put that in another folder.
So we'll be using Node SAS for the most part.
But I'm also going to show you an alternative graphical program called Koala, which is a program you
install and you have a graphical user interface and you can compile SAS that way.
Now you also have these code extensions that can compile SAS.
You may want to look into that.
However, I know that some students might not be using VS code, so I didn't want to go with a VS code
extension.
So what exactly does SAS offer us?
Why is it worth using?
So like I said, SAS allows us to write CSIS more like a dynamic programming language.
It offers variables.
Now you're probably thinking, Well, we are.
We've already seen variables in CSIS.
However, CSIS variables are fairly new.
Also, you saw the syntax.
It's not that pretty using the VAR and so on.
SAS variables are more like standard programming language variables.
Nesting is probably the main reason that I use SAS.
We can nest styles if we have, let's say, a header tag and inside the header there's an H one and
maybe a UL.
We can in our in our SAS style sheets we can put header and then inside the curly braces we can put
h one ul if we have some lines in the UL, we can nest those as well.
It's kind of hard to explain, but once we get into it and you see it visually, it'll make a lot more
sense.
So you can basically structure your CSS like you do your HTML in HTML is nested, so you also have imports
and partials.
Now with regular CSS, you can import other CSS files.
However, it makes a separate request to the server to get each file.
What SAS does is it builds on top of the current CSS import, but instead of requiring a whole new HTTP
request to the server, it'll take that file and it will combine it with the file you're importing so
that you can serve a single CSS file to the web browser.
So it's much more efficient and you can create as many different SAS files for different elements or
however you want to structure your CSS.
We also have functions and mix ins which are predefined styling.
We can set in call functions or mix ins whenever we want.
This helps us stick to the drive principle in programming, which stands for Don't Repeat Yourself.
Instead of writing the same block of CSS over and over, we can stick it in a function and use it.
Then we have conditionals which are basically false statements so we can say Do something based on a
certain condition.
We also have inheritance which allows us to keep our CSS dry because we can take a class and have another
class inherit its properties and styling.
We also have operators for calculations.
We have color functions to lighten or darken colors and these are great for hover effects.
So there's a lot that SAS offers.
All right.
Now, the last thing I want to talk about before we jump in is the difference between an access file
and a SAS file.
So as you can see with the SAS file and in both our SAS, it's just the file extension.
But with this syntax, you see there's no curly braces, so it works on indents.
If you want to be inside this a tag here, you would indent in and then for the hover if you want to
style that you would indent again.
And I'm not really too fond of this this style.
Most people use this as CSS, which as you can see is is basically the same syntax as CSS, except we
have some additional features such as variables.
So we'll be using SAS.
But if you want to look more into the dot SAS type of syntax, you can do that.
All right.
So enough with the slides.
I think that this will make a lot more sense once we jump in and we start to see it in action.
So in the next video, I'm going to show you how we can set up an environment using Node SAS.